Connect Laptop to Router Console Port

You must have 1 or both of these cables to complete this task:

    Serial DB-9/Ethernet RJ-45 console cableConsole Cable
    USB to serial DB-9 adapter only if your laptop does not have a serial port
    usb-serial-adapter

To connect your laptop to the console port on your router:


1. configure terminal

2. interface gigabitethernet slot/port

3. ip address ip-address mask

4. no shutdown

5. exit 



    ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) – used to associate an IP address with a MAC address.
    IP (Internet Protocol) – used to deliver packets from the source host to the destination host based on the IP addresses.
    ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) – used to detects and reports network error conditions. Used in ping.
    TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) – a connection-oriented protocol that enables reliable data transfer between two computers.
    UDP (User Datagram Protocol) – a connectionless protocol for data transfer. Since a session is not created before the data transfer, there is no guarantee of data delivery.
    FTP (File Transfer Protocol) – used for file transfers from one host to another.
    Telnet (Telecommunications Network) – used to connect and issue commands on a remote computer.
    DNS (Domain Name System) – used for host names to the IP address resolution.
    HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) – used to transfer files (text, graphic images, sound, video, and other multimedia files) on the World Wide Web.



IP address with subnet mask decimal notation



view current configuration (RAM) Router # show running-config or write
terminal
view saved (startup) configuration Router # show config or show startup-
config
view basic files system (flash) Router # show flash (or dir)
view router utilization Router # show processes
disable CDP for entire router Router (config) # no cdp run
disable CDP on an interface Router (config-int) # no cdp enable
show interfaces and ip addressing Router > show ip interface brief
show routing table Router > show ip route
show routing protocols for ip Router # show ip protocol
show ip arp table Router # show ip arp



Given that ssh works but telnet doesn't, there are a few options:

    A firewall is blocking the traffic on the server
    Telnet is not running on the server
    Your connections are routed through a gateway that filters out telnet traffic
    You typed different ip addresses when you tried to connect via ssh / telnet


Packet Tracer practice. Record ALL commands and practice in a virtual environment


Router>  <– User EXEC Mode
Router#  <– Privileged EXEC mode
Router(config)#  <– Global Configuration Mode
Router(config-if)# <– Interface Configuration Mode
Router(config-line)# <– Line Configuration Mode
